Mandatory part
Program Name minishell
Files to Submit Makefile, *.h, *.c
Makefile NAME, all, clean, fclean, re
Arguments
External Function readline, rl_clear_history, rl_on_new_line,
rl_replace_line, rl_redisplay, add_history,
printf, malloc, free, write, access, open, read,
close, fork, wait, waitpid, wait3, wait4, signal,
sigaction, sigemptyset, sigaddset, kill, exit,
getcwd, chdir, stat, lstat, fstat, unlink, execve,
dup, dup2, pipe, opendir, readdir, closedir,
strerror, perror, isatty, ttyname, ttyslot, ioctl,
getenv, tcsetattr, tcgetattr, tgetent, tgetflag,
tgetnum, tgetstr, tgoto, tputs
Libft authorized Yes
Description Write a shell
Your shell should:
• Display a prompt when waiting for a new command.
• Have a working history.
• Search and launch the right executable (based on the PATH variable or using a
relative or an absolute path).
• Use at most one global variable to indicate a received signal. Consider the
implications: this approach ensures that your signal handler will not access your
main data structures.
Be careful. This global variable must only store the signal number
and must not provide any additional information or access to data.
Therefore, using "norm" type structures in the global scope is
forbidden.
7Minishell As beautiful as a shell
• Not interpret unclosed quotes or special characters which are not required by the
subject such as \ (backslash) or ; (semicolon).
• Handle ’ (single quote) which should prevent the shell from interpreting the meta-
characters in the quoted sequence.
• Handle " (double quote) which should prevent the shell from interpreting the meta-
characters in the quoted sequence except for $ (dollar sign).
• Implement the following redirections:
◦ < should redirect input.
◦ > should redirect output.
◦ << should be given a delimiter, then read the input until a line containing the
delimiter is seen. However, it doesn’t have to update the history!
◦ >> should redirect output in append mode.
• Implement pipes (| character). The output of each command in the pipeline is
connected to the input of the next command via a pipe.
• Handle environment variables ($ followed by a sequence of characters) which
should expand to their values.
• Handle $? which should expand to the exit status of the most recently executed
foreground pipeline.
• Handle ctrl-C, ctrl-D and ctrl-\ which should behave like in bash.
• In interactive mode:
◦ ctrl-C displays a new prompt on a new line.
◦ ctrl-D exits the shell.
◦ ctrl-\ does nothing.
• Your shell must implement the following built-in commands:
◦ echo with option -n
◦ cd with only a relative or absolute path
◦ pwd with no options
◦ export with no options
◦ unset with no options
◦ env with no options or arguments
◦ exit with no options
8Minishell As beautiful as a shell
The readline() function may cause memory leaks, but you are not required to fix them.
However, this does not mean your own code, yes the code you wrote, can have
memory leaks.
You should limit yourself to the subject description. Anything that
is not asked is not required.
If you have any doubt about a requirement, take bash as a reference.
9Chapter V
Readme Requirements
A README.md file must be provided at the root of your Git repository. Its purpose is
to allow anyone unfamiliar with the project (peers, staff, recruiters, etc.) to quickly
understand what the project is about, how to run it, and where to find more information
on the topic.
The README.md must include at least:
• The very first line must be italicized and read: This project has been created as part
of the 42 curriculum by <login1>[, <login2>[, <login3>[...]]].
• A “Description” section that clearly presents the project, including its goal and a
brief overview.
• An “Instructions” section containing any relevant information about compilation,
installation, and/or execution.
• A “Resources” section listing classic references related to the topic (documen-
tation, articles, tutorials, etc.), as well as a description of how AI was used —
specifying for which tasks and which parts of the project.
➠ Additional sections may be required depending on the project (e.g., usage
examples, feature list, technical choices, etc.).
Any required additions will be explicitly listed below.
Your README must be written in English.
10